---
description: Using the javascript library
---

# 3. Signup/Signin

The js signup method takes the object that you pass it and runs it through the SIGNUP method that you defined in the corresponding SCOPE (previous step), which, in turn, will create a record in the table specified in the SIGNUP method. The signup method will return a JWT token (which contains encoded within it the properties of the object that you passed in). It will also immediately 'activate' those permissions on the db object (since you ran db.signup...). Scopes are defined on the database level, but the authentication parameters (available once a user is signed in to a scope), are made available everywhere. From Tobie: "The authentication process will always be linked with just one SurrealDB scope. But you can put whatever you want on the $auth or $token objects. The scope itself is just a way of defining the signup/signin logic, and/or the authentication tokens. It doesn’t prevent you from defining your own tag/category/scope logic on the jwt token, or the authenticated user record.

### Types of Signup/Signin methods

At the moment, only the RootAuth and ScopeAuth seem to work.

**RootAuth**

Gives you access to all the tables and database metadata. Does not return a token.

```js
{
user: string;
pass: string;
}
```

**NamespaceAuth**

```js
{
NS: string;
user: string;
pass: string;
}
```

**DatabaseAuth**

```js
{
DB: string;
NS: string;
user: string;
pass: string;
}
```

**ScopeAuth**

Gives access to the scope. Both the signup/signin methods return a token.

```js
{
NS: string;
DB: string;
SC: string;
[key: string]: unknown;
}
```

Example:

```js
db.signup({
    NS: 'my_ns',
    DB: 'my_db',
    SC: 'allusers', // We want to signup to the 'allusers' scope defined above
    email: 'test@acme.com',
    password: 'some password',
});
```

This will return a token.

#### Sources:

[https://discord.com/channels/902568124350599239/1025048139968815194](https://discord.com/channels/902568124350599239/1025048139968815194)

